---
title: 'Journey from Urban Planning to .......'
date: 2025-11-05
permalink: /posts/2013/08/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - Never Give Up
  - Passion
  - Error & Error
---

I've recently finished my undergraduate. It was a great experience for me as I explored not only departmental courses but also some non-departmental topics. This blog describes the journey of my academic life.

Timeline Wise......
======

All of my closest friends went to different institutions after completing the Secondary School Certificate exam. So, I was a bit of unhappy for this lose. Anyway, after starting the regular classes, I managed to be serious with my academic works as soon as I found chemistry quite interesting and eventually scored almost perfect in the final. While studing Physics, Chemistry and Maths, I made the decision to study Mechanical Engineering at the best university of my country. Though I could not manage to get my dream department, somewhat I managed to admit into my dream university.

First Year
------
I got the opportunity to study Urban and Regional Planning. This department hampered all of my interest as all the courses was theoritical and design related. I had a dream of designing machine but in return I had to design city which is also very subjective, in contrast to my belief of in objective results. On the other hand, COVID-19 spread out all over the world and our offline classes shifted to online. This incident also demotivated me as it was very challenging for me to understand topics via online sources. There was certainly no campus life, no offline friends and no offline classes. It was a hectic starting for me. Finally, Urban Planning principles and architectural designs caused the death of my Mechanical Engineering dream. 

Second Year
------
I would love to mention a person, my school, college and university alumni, Mr. Shakti Banik, at this point. He was the only one who helped me to overcome the academic boringness by teaching me some basic codes of <b>Proteus ISIS</b> and <b>Arduino</b>, and that was the beginning of my coding journey though I could not continue at a great pace because of the lengthy studio works. I shifted from Proteus coding to C and C++ on the following months and solved course works of Civil department guided lectures with the help of another alumni. At the same time, I enrolled <b>Statistics<b> and <b>Geographic Information System (GIS)<b> courses. These courses gave me relief and I began to find interest in my departmental courses. Moreover, Civil Engineering courses were also fascinating to me.

Third Year
------
"A great teacher can change the plan of a student's life" - once an honourable person told. This thing exactly happed to me when I got in touch with Zafri sir. He was so fast, not like the other slow paced departmental teachers! He was very efficient, very charming and helpful. He is also a supporter of Brazil team in football whereas I was his opposite (Argentina) supporter. After a long argument about football, we became close enough to share my personal opinion with him about my academic life. He advised me to learn <b>Machine Learning<b> at first and then try to integrate that into my upcoming thesis. I took this advice seriously and completed coursera Machine Learning course by Andrew Ng. In addition, I used Kaggle dataset to do some projects of my own. 

Fourth Year
------
I was planning to do research in transportation planning domain as there are many scopes of integrating ML into planning. But 'Life is not a bed of roses'- our thesis domains were selected by lottery and I got Environment Planning domain, which was my second choice. Here comes the twist of my academic life, the hammer (main idea). My thesis supervisor, Dr. Dipita Hossain was very supportive that she permitted me to use <b> Deep Learning <b> in my thesis for the very first time in our department history. No one ever took that risk before, but she was the real hero. She gave me the freedom to choose my topic. After two pre-defence and a final defence, I successfully defended my thesis with a perfect score (4.00/ 4.00). My supervisor taught me to focus on what I actually find interesting.

In Conclusion
======
Transportation Planning and Environmental Planning are the field which I was looking for. These finds are the combination of objective and sujective outputs. I've completed several courses on these domains in my undergraduate level as well. After completing my graduation, I asked myself "Can I now do some works that I find interesting? "





